So setting the language and fixing markup.
So one easy win that you can
do on a lot of web pages.
And this is something that x
will advise you to do is to put
a language on your pages.
So if there's one overall language,
English for example,
we can put HTML Lang equals en for
English.
And that will actually have a pretty
profound effect on assistive technology.
So depending on how the content
is like what language it's in,
the screen reader will
change its pronunciation.
And it's really cool.
So for sites with multiple languages,
maybe you could change it in a template
depending on what language
you're rendering out.
There is page level versus
element level language.
So if you have a site that's
mostly in English, but
you have some elements on it that
are in French or some other language,
you can actually kind of override the page
level language on a per element basis.
So if I have a paragraph
with lang = fr within a lang
equals in that one paragraph
will sound francais.
[LAUGH] It'll sound different and
you can hear it in the screen reader.
It's pretty awesome.
So if you had a whole page of French and
it was marked up as laggy and
it would be excruciating to listen to,
if you like the worst pronunciation ever,
but actually the screen reader
can do a way better job if you tell
it what language it needs to be in.
I think we even have an example.
So I have a stack blitz here in the
project that we can actually fire up and
test.
So let's try that real quick.
I am going to put it on preview mode.
So StackBlitz itself is
probably not that accessible.
A lot of these tools,
I want them to be more accessible.
But often when you're testing.
If you can open the little
demo project in a new window,
sometimes that will isolate it so
that the screen reader doesn't
get tripped up on other UI
elements of the tool itself.
So I'm going to turn on Voiceover
with function Command F5.
>> Navigation, visited,
linked, heading level one.
Web accessibility v3, home,
frame preview page group you are currently
on a frame to an https:// web-flat
https:// web-platform-li6 gwd.
Heading level 2, heading level 1,
french recipes heading level 2,
you are currently on a heading level two.
>> That didn't work, did it [LAUGH]?
>> [CROSSTALK] To exit this way.
>> Voivodigdin, so that's what it
sounds like when it doesn't work.
[LAUGH] That was so terrible.
>> Jithub, anyone?
>> VoiceOver off.
>> Yeah, that didn't work at all.
So that could be Chrome.
It totally worked when it
didn't when I tested it.
So it does have the Lang FR.
That could be reason enough
to open this up in Safari.
So because I am committed to this,
I am going to go open it up and see.
We'll see maybe our first difference.
If stack blitz will load, it will.
Okay, so I'm gonna fire it
up again function command f5
>> VoiceOver on Safari set recipes.
You are heading level one,
heading level two boa four chignon.
>> No,
>> You are heading level one French
recipes.
You are heading level
two boa four chignon.
You are currently on the heading
level two inside of the frame.
The Character palette close by Safari.
Setting the language and
fix the VoiceOver off.
>> Sad face emoji.
Well, the demo gods were not blessing us
in this example and I have no idea why.
Maybe it's something was stack Blitz.
I think when I tested it, it was not
embedded within the slide window itself.
So we have to test Stuff periodically and
I swear VoiceOver will do that sometimes
where you're like, wait,
that worked and then it didn't.
But we're like embedding
windows within windows, so
all bets are off if it'll be beef
bourguignon or beef bourguignon.
That's pretty funny though.
[LAUGH] At least you can see
the kind of what happens when you
don't have the attribute so
it's informative in that way, fun.
[LAUGH] Okay, well,
I'm going to close out of Safari.
That was a fun little experiment.
>> I often find engineers use the button
tag for a link usually because they need
an uncle Click handler for
something like analytics?
For example, pushing to the route in
a function when the next router, instead
of using an actual link, what would be
the best way to correctly handle this so
that a link is a link, but
it also calls a function?
>> Well, I think, yeah,
it's gonna depend on your router for one.
I haven't had to use a router
in a little while and
you'll learn why,
[LAUGH] this week for sure.
But I think if,
like I've seen a lot of buttons that
should be links in the code base.
I'm working on and I think sometimes
styles are the constraint, like,
if you're dealing with old styles
that everyone's afraid to touch,
that can be a reason
why the stuff persists.
So to try and solve that, yeah,
I guess I'd have to see,
can you put a, like,
maybe an event listener on the element and
the RF for the link.
That's just kind of talking you through
my process of what I would try is to see
if you can register a click event
that doesn't do any navigating, but
will kind of capture that analytics event.
Especially if it's client side routed,
I guess.
One thing I would be looking out for is
if the default HTML navigation with href,
if it wasn't client-side routed,
it would probably refresh, and
you may or may not see that click event to
get that, capture that analytics event.
But, if it is client-side routed,
if it's not gonna refresh page.
So theoretically, maybe you could
do a click event and an href, but
I'm not totally certain that would work.
That's kind of just my thought process.
Because often there
are constraints like that.
Like, why does this happen this way?
It's not by choice.
It's just because of whatever we're
trying to navigate through at work.
So I think in an ideal world, we do want
to try and make links look like links and
buttons look like buttons.
But I can say from experience that
that's just not always what happens.